Unicorn for binary analysis (#1862)
OWASP/owasp-mstg: Document/0x06c-Reverse-Engineering-and-Tampering.md

To use Unicorn's _full power_, we would need to implement all the necessary infrastructure which generally is readily available from the operating system, e.g. binary loader, linker and other dependencies or use another higher level frameworks such as [Qiling](https://qiling.io "Qiling") which leverages Unicorn to emulate CPU instructions, but understands the OS context. However, this is superfluous for this very localized challenge where only executing a small part of the binary will suffice.

While performing manual analysis in "[Reviewing Disassembled Native Code](#reviewing-disassembled-native-code "Reviewing Disassembled Native Code")" section, we determined that the function at address 0x1000080d4 is responsible for dynamically generating the secret string. As we're about to see, all the necessary code is pretty much self-contained in the binary, making this a perfect scenario to use a CPU emulator like Unicorn.

<img src="Images/Chapters/0x06c/manual_reversing_ghidra_native_disassembly.png" alt="Disassembly of the native function" width="500" />

> If we analyze that function and the subsequent function calls, we will observe that there is no hard dependency on any external library and neither its performing any system calls. The only access external to the functions occurs for instance at address 0x1000080f4, where a value is being stored to address 0x10000dbf0, which maps to the `__data` section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If we analyze that function and the subsequent function calls, we will observe that there is no hard dependency on any external library and neither it's performing any system calls. The only access external to the functions occurs for instance at address 0x1000080f4, where a value is being stored to address 0x10000dbf0, which maps to the `__data` section.
```

An introduction to binary analysis using binary analysis frameworks has already been discussed in the "[Dynamic Analysis](0x05c-Reverse-Engineering-and-Tampering.md#dynamic-analysis "Dynamic analysis")" section for Android. We recommend you to revisit this section and refresh the concepts on this subject.

For Android, we used Angr's symbolic execution engine to solve a challenge. In this section, we will firstly use Unicorn to solve [UnCrackable Level 1 crackme app](https://github.com/OWASP/owasp-mstg/blob/master/Crackmes/iOS/Level_01/UnCrackable_Level1.ipa "UnCrackable Level 1 iOS App") challenge and then we will revisit the Angr binary analysis framework to analyze the challenge but instead of symbolic execution we will use its concrete execution (or dynamic execution) features.

### Unicorn

Unicorn is a lightweight, multi-architecture CPU emulator framework. Unicorn provides us the basic infrastructure needed to execute processor instructions. In this section we will use Unicorn to solve UnCrackable Level 1 iOS App.

> To use Unicorn, we need to implement all necessary infrastructure which generally is readily available to us in an Operating System, which includes binary loader, linker and other dependency libraries. Writing a complete binary loader is superfluous for our current goal,  instead we will write our own crude binary loader and execute a small part of the binary in Unicorn to solve the challenge.

Reviewer: added Qiling ref. for completion

```suggestion
To use Unicorn's _full power_, we would need to implement all the necessary infrastructure which generally is readily available from the operating system, e.g. binary loader, linker and other dependencies or use another higher level frameworks such as [Qiling](https://qiling.io "Qiling") which leverages Unicorn to emulate CPU instructions, but understands the OS context. However, this is superfluous for this very localized challenge where only executing a small part of the binary will suffice.
```

> While performing manual analysis in "[Reviewing Disassembled Native Code](#reviewing-disassembled-native-code "Reviewing Disassembled Native Code")" section, we determined that the function at offset 0x1000080d4 is responsible for dynamically generating the secret string. If we analyze this function and the subsequent function calls, we will observe that there is no hard dependency on any external library and neither its performing any system calls. All the necessary code is self-contained in the binary and this is a perfect scenario to use a CPU emulator like Unicorn.

Author: Are you referring to address 0x1000080d4? This is the function in 'manual_reversing_ghidra_native_disassembly.png'

> While performing manual analysis in "[Reviewing Disassembled Native Code](#reviewing-disassembled-native-code "Reviewing Disassembled Native Code")" section, we determined that the function at offset 0x1000080d4 is responsible for dynamically generating the secret string. If we analyze this function and the subsequent function calls, we will observe that there is no hard dependency on any external library and neither its performing any system calls. All the necessary code is self-contained in the binary and this is a perfect scenario to use a CPU emulator like Unicorn.

Author: aah okay, u might be referring to 0x100008198. I will add a small snippet for that.

> While performing manual analysis in "[Reviewing Disassembled Native Code](#reviewing-disassembled-native-code "Reviewing Disassembled Native Code")" section, we determined that the function at offset 0x1000080d4 is responsible for dynamically generating the secret string. If we analyze this function and the subsequent function calls, we will observe that there is no hard dependency on any external library and neither its performing any system calls. All the necessary code is self-contained in the binary and this is a perfect scenario to use a CPU emulator like Unicorn.

Reviewer: I thought that maybe you could use another address from the current snippet picture as example instead of putting a new one. To keep it simple. Would that be possible?

> While performing manual analysis in "[Reviewing Disassembled Native Code](#reviewing-disassembled-native-code "Reviewing Disassembled Native Code")" section, we determined that the function at offset 0x1000080d4 is responsible for dynamically generating the secret string. If we analyze this function and the subsequent function calls, we will observe that there is no hard dependency on any external library and neither its performing any system calls. All the necessary code is self-contained in the binary and this is a perfect scenario to use a CPU emulator like Unicorn.

Author: Argh, i should have seen this before. Done now. :)

- Create memory and load the `__text` and `__data` section.
- Execute the binary by providing the start and end address.
- Finally, dump the return value from the function, which in this case is our secret string.

In the present scenario, apart from the `__text` section (which contains the instructions) we also need to load `__data` section. The program is accessing some hard coded values, which are typically stored in `__data` section of a Mach-O binary. In function at 0x100008158, at address 0x100008198 a value from address 0x10000d8f6 is being accessed. The address 0x10000d8f6 maps to `__data` section of the binary.

To extract the content of `__text` and `__data` section from the Mach-O binary we will use [LIEF](https://lief.quarkslab.com/ "Lief") library. LIEF provides a convenient abstraction to manipulate multiple executable file formats, including Mach-O files. But before this content into the memory, we also need to determine the load address for `__text` and `__data` section. This can be easily determined using any binary analysis tool like Ghidra, Radare2 or IDA Pro.

<img src="Images/Chapters/0x06c/uncrackable_sections.png" width="500px"/>

> From the above table, we will use the base address 0x10000432c for `__text` and 0x10000d3e8 for `__data` section to load them at in the memory.

Reviewer: you can do this in the script so you don't need another extra tool:

```
emu.mem_write(text_section.virtual_address, bytes(text_section.content)) # 0x10000432c
emu.mem_write(data_section.virtual_address, bytes(data_section.content)) # 0x10000d3e8
```

Author: We are already using Ghidra heavily in this chapter, I felt it should be fine to just re-reference it. Also, this helps to connect all tools together and how to use them. 

I am still open to your suggestion, if you feel otherwise. Let me know.

Reviewer: it's ok, no need to change it :)
